## NCES Scraping Project

This is a webscraping project written and devloped by James McGillicuddy for the sole use of Eduoporium.

The majority of the code for this project is found in the main_modules directory, please start [here](./main_modules/README.md).

After spending many many hours staring at school websites, a pattern emerged between many of their staff directories. Many had the same pagination system that I dubbed 'fs' due to that prefix being common in their html structure ([example](https://www.pvbears.org//our-district/staff-directory)). I'm not sure what exactly the fs stands for or what service all of these school pages got them from (my googling led to many results for the US Forest Service), but they represented a great opportunity. Read more [here](./fs_pages/README.md)

**7/30/24 UPDATE:** After some divine intervention, I have come to the conclusion that the 'fs' does not stand for Forest Service, but instead for Finalsite, a third-party content management system (CMS). By looking at their [website](https://www.finalsite.com/school-websites/cms-for-schools/directories) it becomes pretty obvious that this is the CMS the sites used. The design of the page, presence of the terms 'constituents', along with a photo, name, title, email, and location all but cement the claim, and fs standing for finalsite is quite convienent! I still don't know why such a large portion of the accessed schools use Finalsite, and why that seems to be the only CMS used at a frequency common enough to be significant to his project. Whatever the case may be, the consistency of Finalsite's structure led to the acqusition of about `125,000` data points, reprensenting just over two-thirds of total data. So thank you Finalsite!

As of writing, the system was able to access `184,863` customers. Each customer has at least an email, of which `35.80%` only have an email. `11.93%` have both their email and name, while `11.99%` have both their email and titles. The remaining `40.28%` of data is complete, with name, title(s), and email. By far the most useful statistic is email, which 100% of the data points have. The next would be the title, which 52.27% of data points include, allowing for more specific email targeting. As for the name, it can almost always be inferred from the email, found online, or gained in some other manner, so the data points that do not include the name do not suffer from much loss.

Before the data was normalized, there existed about 40,000 more employees, however their email was not listed on their website. Until schools update their staff's contact information, there is not much this system can do besides find more applicable staff directory sites, and perhaps work on speed optimization. Also, a majority of these sites did actually list a location of the employee, like the school they worked at. While this data could be useful in some cases, many of the locations were blank and even some that weren't were not very helpful, stating just "elementary school". Location can pretty easily be determined by the email or a quick google search if it is needed, so it was decided to be left out of the scraping process.